---
layout: default
title: 0.2.0 LaR test build
parent: Full changelogs
nav_order: 999_960
---

<p style="color: green; font-weight: bold">Release date: 13.04.2020</p>

## General
* Map is unchanged from vanilla.
* Resources are unchanged from vanilla.
* Factories & mil factories are unchanged from vanilla.
* Generals & admirals are unchanged from vanilla.
* AI is unchanged from vanilla.
* Since for some reason Paradox considered one division training as an exploit we’ve decided to make division templates free
* Military advisor now gives 0.17 army exp daily (was 0.05)
* Game’s speed rework: 
  * 1st speed now is 2nd
  * 2nd speed now is 2.5
  * 3d speed is 3d
  * 4th speed is 4th
  * 5th speed is 5th
* Resource toolbar UI has been adjusted to the new changes of HoI4’s UI.
* [Stierlitz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stierlitz) has been added to SOV (lvl 1 operative, no additional skills, easter egg)
* After completion of GEACPS focus JAP now will get national idea [Kenpeitai](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenpeitai) which will give it +1 operative slot.
* “Instantiate a collaboration government” event has been removed from the game.
* “Root out resistance” mission now also gives 0.02 compliance daily (~7% per year)
* Operative’s propaganda mission has been removed.
* Agency is now free & instant to build (was 30 days for creation with 5 factories on it)
* Operative recruitment time has been reduced to 15 days (was 30)
* Agency branch upgrades are now 2 times cheaper (rounding down, so 5 factories cost now 2 factories cost, 15 => 7, etc)
* “Psychological Warfare” tech has been removed from the game.

## Compliance & Spymaster system rework
* Faction leaders (ENG/GER/SOV/JAP) are now considered as their faction’s Spymaster by default. (JAP will become a Spymaster of his faction after completion “GEACPS” focus) 
* Any faction member can ask his faction leader to take over spymaster role via vanilla’s default diplomatic option “Take over spymaster”.
* “Become spymaster” button has been removed.
* “Become spymaster” now free (was 50 PP)
* You don’t need any agency’s upgrades to become a spymaster anymore (was minimum 3 different upgrades)
* Cooldown for changing a spymaster role in alliance has been reduced to 14 days (was 180)
* Puppets now have opportunity to become a Spymaster
* Axis Puppets (Integrated puppets & Japanese puppets) now contribute their operatives to Spymaster
* “Prepare collaboration government” mission now will always give 40% of compliance
* If Spymaster has completed “Prepare collaboration government” mission successfully - every member of his faction will be granted with 40% of compliance on desired country.
* If any non-spymaster country has completed “Prepare collaboration government” mission successfully - every member of his faction will be granted only with 20% of compliance on desired country, but country who executed “Prepare collaboration government” will be granted with 40% of compliance anyway.

## Countries
* Now Portugal is memeless country (Anti-historical focuses, ideas, decisions have been removed)
* Removed a lot of France’s anti-historical focuses, ideas & decisions. 
* Free France’s & Vichy France’s focuses are still in-game.
* Spain focus tree has been reverted back to 1.8.2 (generic national tree)
* The whole new spanish civil war mechanic from La Resistance DLC has been completely removed.

## Game rules:
* “Vichy France Settings” - allowing or disallowing Vichy France to be formed.
* “Franco-British Union Settings” - allowing or disallowing Franco-British Union to be  formed

## Fixes:
* If Franco-British union was made ENG will be granted with 70% of compliance in every ex-french state.
* “Annex %minor%” decision will also give 70% of compliance to whom it execute.

## Known issues:
* On map decisions (such as hiring local operatives) work only if you’re zoomed in.